'Legend has it
that it was written by the Dark Ones.
"'Necronomicon Ex Mortes."
'Roughly translated: "Book of the Dead."
'The book served as a passageway
to the evil worlds beyond.
'It was written long ago...'
'...when the seas ran red with blood.
'It was this blood
that was used to ink the book.
'In the year 1300 AD,
'the book disappeared.'
So what's this place like?
Well, it's a little rundown,
but, uh, it's right up in the mountains.
- Are you sure it's converted?
- Oh, yeah.
I think so.
Oh!
Ow!
So what do you think, kid?
I love it, Ash.
I feel funny about being here.
What if the people
who own this place come home?
They're not gonna come back.
Even if they do, we'll tell them
the car broke down or something.
With your car, they'd believe it.
Hey. What do you say we have
some champagne, eh, baby, huh?
Sure.
After all, I'm a man and you're a woman.
At least, the last time I checked.
Ugh!
Ah!
Hey! There's a...
there's a tape recorder here.
See what's on it.
'This is Professor Raymond Knowby,
Department of Ancient History,
'log entry number two.
'I believe I have made a significant find
in the castle of Kanda,
'having journeyed there
with my wife Henrietta,
'my daughter Annie,
and associate professor Ed Gatly.
'It was in the rear chamber
of the castle
'that we stumbled
upon something remarkable.
“Naturum de Monte
"'The Book of the Dead."
'My wife and I brought the book
to this cabin
'where I could study it undisturbed.
'It was here
that I began the translations.
'The book speaks of a spiritual presence.
'A thing of evil that roams the forests
and the dark powers of man's domain.
'It is through the recitation
of the book's passages
'that this dark spirit is given licence
to possess the living.
'Recorded here are the phonetic
pronunciations of those passages.
'Kanda.
'Estrata. Amantos...
'Ear-greats, gat.
'Nos Feratos.
'Kanda.
'Amantos. Kanda...'
Linda?
Hey, Lin...
Linda.
It's gone.
The sun's driven it away.
Yeah.
For now.
Gotta... Gotta pull out of here
before nightfall.
'Join us!'
Oh!
On! on, my God!
No. No!
Oh, no.
NO! No!
I gotta...
I gotta get a grip of myself here.
Thank you.
- Annie!
- Hi!
Mm. How did the expedition go?
Great. I found the pages
of the "Book of the Dead".
Yeah. I got your telegram, thanks.
- So what condition are they in?
- Take a look.
- They haven't aged a day in 3,000 years.
- Maybe longer.
- When do we begin the translations?
- Tonight. All set with my father?
It should be.
I haven't spoken with him in a week.
There's no phone in the cabin.
I'll take my car.
It'll take us an hour to get there.
Annie, you hinted that your father was
on to something with his translations.
What has he found
in the "Book of the Dead"?
Probably nothing.
But just possibly
the doorway to another world.
Ah.
Ah!
Dance with me!
Yeah, just...
Ah, ah.
Hello, lover.
Work shed.
Come on! No!
Even now,
we have your darling Linda's soul.
She suffers in torment.
You're going down.
Chainsaw.
Please, Ash.
Please don't hurt me.
You swore... you swore
that we'd always be together.
I love you.
No!
Yes!
Your love was a lie.
And now she burns in hell!
Oh, yeah? All right. OK.
I'm fine.
I don't think so.
We just cut up our girlfriend
with a chainsaw.
Does that sound fine?
You bastards!
You dirty bastards!
Give me back my hand.
Give me back my hand!
Mm-hm.
Excuse me.
Is this the road to the Knowby cabin?
That's right. And you ain't going there.
And why not?
There must be another way in.
There's gotta be a road or something.
Sure ain't no road.
Why the hell do you wanna go
up there for, anyway?
Huh?
None of your business.
Hey. I just remembered.
Why, yeah, that's right.
There is a trail. Well, you could, uh...
follow Bobby Joe and me.
Sounds all right to me.
- But it'll cost you.
- How much?
Forty-f...
100 bucks.
Tell you what,
you take my bags and you got a deal.
Sure!
No!
That's right.
So who's laughing now?
Who's laughing now?
Jesus Christ!
I thought she was talking
about them two goddamn little bags.
Here's your new home.
You son of a...
Gotcha, didn't I, you little sucker?
A double-barrel here.
I'll blow your butts to kingdom come!
See if we don't.
Huh?
Oh!
- Hit him!
- Ah!
You little dirty bastard.
- You gonna be all right, honey?
- I don't know. I think so.
You just sit still for a minute.
You know this son of a bitch?
No. We thought our father
was gonna be here.
Oh, my God. Where are my parents?
What the hell did you do to them?
What the hell did you do?
Annie, come here! Annie!
Come here! Come here.
We'll throw him in there.
Crazy buck's gone blood simple.
'BIZ
I... I made a mistake.
- Wait, wait, wait.
- Bring him over here.
No! I made a mistake.
Damn right,
you black-mouth son of a bitch!
I hope you rot down there!
- Oh, shit!
- I know it hurts, baby.
But everything's gonna be fine.
In about five minutes, I'm gonna go
fetch the sheriff and bring him...
I checked all the rooms.
Your folks aren't here.
Maybe they never came.
But these are my father's things.
'It's only been a few hours
since I've translated and spoken aloud
'the first of the demon
resurrection passages,
"from the "Book of the Dead".'
Shh. Listen up. This is my father's voice.
'And now I fear that
my wife has become host
'to a Kandarian demon.
'May God forgive me for what
I have unleashed unto this Earth.
'Last night, Henrietta tried to...
'...kill me.'
How?
'It's now October 1st, 4:33pm.
'Henrietta is dead.
'I could not bring myself
to dismember her corpse.
'But I dragged her down the steps
and I buried her.
'I buried her in the cellar.
'God help me, I buried her
in the earthen floor of the fruit cellar.'
- What the hell was that?
- Somebody's down there with him.
- No. It can't be.
- Let's get the fuck outta here.
Someone's in my fruit cellar!
Someone with a fresh soul.
Let me out!
There's something down here!
- Let him out.
- It's a trick.
- Let him out!
- Move it!
Open those chains up.
Come to me.
Help! Help me!
Come to sweet Henrietta.
There's something down here!
- Help me!
- Hurry!
Help me, please!
I'll swallow your soul!
Help me!
Do something!
There's something out there.
That...
That witch in the cellar
is only part of it.
It lives...
...out in those woods.
In the dark.
Something...
Something that's come back
from the dead.
Jake!
Please, let's get the hell out of here!
- We're going, baby.
- Nobody goes out of that door!
- Not till daylight!
- Listen to me.
Remember that song, Annie?
I used to sing it to you
when you were a baby.
Mother?
Unlock these chains. Quickly.
No.
You were born September 2nd, 1962.
I remember it well
because it was snowing.
So strange it would be snowing
in September.
That thing in the cellar is not my mother!
We are the things that were
and shall be again.
Spirits of the Book.
We want what is yours. Life.
- Dead by dawn.
Dead by dawn! Dead by dawn!
Dead by dawn.
- Let me out!
- You son of a bitch.
No!
Where are you going?
Help us, you fucking coward!
Quickly! Set me free.
We live! We live still!
That's funny.
What?
That trail we came in here on?
Well, it just ain't there no more.
Like...
Like the witches swallowed her up.
It's so quiet.
What the hell was that?
Maybe something trying
to force its way into our world.
It's in there.
We'll all go in together.
Hell, no!
You're the curious one.
Hey-
I'll go with you.
Shit.
I told you there weren't
nothing in here, no how.
Holy mother of mercy.
- Father?
- Annie?
There is a... dark spirit here
that wants to destroy you.
Your salvation lies there.
In the pages of the Book.
Recite the passages.
Dispel the evil.
Save my soul.
And your own lives!
Jake... you're holding my hand too tight.
Baby, I ain't holding your hand.
Hey...
Where's Bobby Joe?
Stop!
Hey. Where the hell is she?
We gotta go out there and find her.
If she went out in those woods,
you can forget about her.
What's wrong?
It felt like someone
just walked over my grave.
What's that picture? What is that?
In 1300 AD,
they called this man
the Hero from the Sky.
He was prophesied
to have destroyed the evil.
He didn't do a very good job.
Can you find it?
Here it is. Two passages.
"Recitation of this first passage...
"...will make this dark spirit
manifest itself in the flesh."
Why the hell would we wanna do that?
"Recitation of the second passage
"creates a kind of...
rift in time and space.
"And the physical manifestation
of this dark spirit
"can be forced back into the rift."
That's the best translation I can...
Uh-huh. That's right.
I'm running the show now.
We're gonna go up there in them woods
and look for Bobby Joe.
Once we find her,
we're getting the hell out of here!
No, you idiot!
It Will kill us all.
She's dead by now.
Don't you understand?
With these pages,
at least we have a chance.
Bunch of mumbo-jumbo bullshit!
These pages don't mean squat!
Besides, now you ain't got no choice.
Now move!
- Move.
- You're nuts.
- I said move!
- Oh, you stupid fool!
I'll blow your fucking head off!
Hey-
No trail.
Where to now?
Uh, uh...
Bobby Joe!
You'll get us all killed!
- Leave him alone!
- Get outta here!
Bobby Joe!
Bobby... Joe!
Bobby Joe... where are you, girl?
You're nuts!
Annie!
No.
Aargh! No, no!
I'm sorry.
Get me in the other room.
Get the axe.
We'll kill him when he comes back.
But first, pull this damn thing out of me!
I can't breathe. I can't breathe.
Hurry! Hurry!
L'm trying. I'm trying!
Shut up!
Shut up! Shut up!
Check out... beside the windows.
Check the windows. He's probably...
Help me!
Oh, God!
No, no! Wait!
Listen to me!
I'm all right now.
That thing is gone.
Damn it! I said I was all right!
Are you listening to me?
Do you hear what I'm saying?
I'm all right!
I'm all right.
OK, maybe you are.
But for how long?
If we're gonna beat this thing,
we need those pages.
Then let's head down into that cellar
and carve ourselves a witch.
Groovy.
Those pages are down there somewhere.
The pages. Quick!
Nos Feratos, Kalamimnon, Kanda!
No!
Let's go.
Swallow your soul. I'll swallow your soul.
Hey, I'll swallow your soul!
I'll swallow your soul!
I'll swallow your...
Swallow this.
I only completed
the first of the passages.
That was to make the evil
a thing of the flesh.
You didn't finish it?
There's still the second passage.
The one...
The one to open the rift
and send the evil back.
Well, start reciting it! Now!
Don't look, Annie! Finish the passages!
Get rid of it!
Kanda! Amantos! Kanda!
Kanda'. Somonda Reba Neda Gyes'.!
Enzeen!
No!
Nos Feratos!
Amenal!
Akadiv!
ldres.
'We've won!'
Victory is ours!
Kanda.
You did it, kid.
By God...
For God's sake!
How do you stop it?
Slay the beast! 'Tis a deadite!
- Huh?
Run! Run for the castle!
Hail he who has come from the skies
to deliver us
from the terrors of the deadites!
Hail!
No...
- Hail! Hail!
- No!
No!
Hail! Hail!
NO! No!
No!